# Timeline

To effectively address the systemic issues that face Computer Science education in Oklahoma, multiple moving parts will work in concert. The following diagram indicates the components of the system that will be working simultaneously around course codes, standards, graduation requirements, teacher certification and other key issues. While the diagram is designed to provide some guidance for future work and timelines, elaborations are provided in five key areas of the diagram.

1. The **ORGANIZING STRUCTURE** is shown using circles to indicate the three tiers: Executive Team, the committee co-chairs, and the three acting committees.
2. The priority for the **EXECUTIVE TEAM** will initially center around clarifying the timeline of the committees, including refining the key deliverables, meeting dates, feedback opportunities, and publicity strategies. A public State Plan will be presented, establishing baseline guidance for what tools, reports, and resources should be considered as the work of the three committees progresses.
3. **THE COMMITTEE FOR STANDARDS & CURRICULUM** will begin by establishing interim guidance that can be used by Oklahoma districts in the 2017-2018 school year. Additionally, course code review and recommendations will be a priority. While any changes recommended will not be available to school districts in 2017-2018, these recommendations will undergo an extensive feedback process that will allow for final recommendations to be included in the 2018-2019 subject code list. Further guidance on the changes will be produced and available in Fall 2017 as the committee shifts its focus to reviewing and revising the Computer Science standards.
4. **THE COMMITTEE FOR TEACHER CERTIFICATION & DEVELOPMENT** will begin by providing interim guidance that can be used by Oklahoma districts in the 2017-2018 school year. The work of this committee will take on the substantial challenge of considering what competencies a CS teacher should have mastered in order to be a highly qualified CS teacher. During their work, consideration will be given to the current teacher shortage challenges faced in Oklahoma. Innovative approaches such as micro-credentialing will be considered.
5. **THE COMMITTEE FOR POLICY & RESEARCH** will develop a policy landscape analysis that incorporates components of current state policy. Analysis of current policy will help to understand the extent to which current graduation requirements, admissions policies, etc. impact student access to Computer Science and Computational Thinking learning experiences. Careful attention will be given to balancing measures that help to appreciate the concern for serving the whole child as expected in the Every Student Succeeds Act. Recommendations for future policy advocacy will be presented to the Computer Science education community and the Oklahoma State School Board of Education in Spring 2018.
